Changes in 0.5.0 (2016-10-06)
================

New features:
 - A new server config item, ```reconnectIntervalMs``` has been added and is used to throttle reconnections to an IRC server in a queue, where one reconnection is serviced per interval.
 - Added Third Party Lookup - for mapping IRC user/channel names into Matrix user IDs or room aliases.
 - Added config ```floodDelayMs``` which is used to drip feed membership entries at the specified rate when syncing membership.

Improvements:
 - Provisioning:
   - Provisioning of mappings has been improved by requiring that an IRC channel operator (or admin) in the plumbed channel respond with 'yes'/'y' before the mapping can be created to prevent abuse.
   - During provisioning, matrix room state ```m.room.bridging``` is used in the room in the new mapping to signal whether the status of the bridging is 'pending', 'success', or 'failure':
    ```JS
    {
        content: {
            bridger: 'nick',
            status: 'pending'
        }
    }
    ```
   - Route loops are now prevented using ```m.room.bridging``` as an indication that bridging exists.
   - The ```queryLink``` endpoint for asking for a list of operators in a given channel has been added. This list is acquired through the bot joining a channel, but they are cached temporarily to reduce join/part spam.
   - The ```queryNetworks``` endpoint was added and can be used to query the available networks on the bridge.
   - The IRC bot will leave a channel if it is no longer mapped to any other upon unlinking. The matrix bot will also leave an totally unlinked room.
   - Better error message are given when linking.
   - Only moderators in a matrix room can unlink.
 - The wording of messages sent to admin rooms has been improved, as well as a helpful message to get things started.
 - Sync +s mode in chanels with room visibility. +s = 'hidden from public room directory', -s = 'listed on the public room directory'.

Bug fixes:
 - Room alias requests can only be done for channels that start with ```#``` to avoid confusion with people not being able to join ```#ircnetwork_somechannel:domain.com```. The important thing being the missing ```#``` before ```somechannel```.
 - Prevent admin room from being created when plumbing. Previously, the bot would treat a linked room as an admin room, and so allow users to issue commands in it (but only after unlinking again).
 - If the bot is enabled, join a channel when linked.
 - Part IRC clients which should no longer be in a channel due to unlinking.
 - When an IPv6 prefix is provided, assume outgoing IRC connections will be IPv6, instead of relying on the specified IRC domain only resolving to IPv6 addresses. Previsouly, this would cause issues with IPv6 bound outgoing connections attempting to connect to IPv4 addresses.
 - Do not cache stale clients in the client pool. Previously, stale BridgedClients would be left in the client pool if the bot was disconnected and then reconnected. These stale clients would be returned by clientPool.getBot(server).


Changes in 0.4.0
================

New features:
 - Kicks to and from Matrix will now be mirrored. This does not alter the
   ops/power level of any user, and hence may not always succeed.
 - PM rooms now have a `federate` flag to control whether they can be federated
   or not (via the `m.federate` option on the room creation).
 - Long messages sent from Matrix will now be uploaded to Matrix as `.txt` files
   before being sent to IRC. The number of lines allowed before uploading can
   be configured by a new `lineLimit` option in `config.yaml`.
 - Add a dynamic provisioning API to create/delete Matrix<-->IRC links on a
   running bridge instance. These links do NOT have preference over config-specified
   mappings.
 - Allow arbitrary IRC commands to be sent to an IRC network via the Matrix
   admin room.

Improvements:
 - Connection notices will now only be sent to Matrix users after receiving
   `RPL_WELCOME` rather than establishing a TCP connection. This reduces message
   spam when connections fail to register (due to throttling, etc).
 - User and Alias regexes generated by the bridge will now be scoped to the
   homeserver rather than set as a wildcard (which would result in traffic from
   federated servers being sent to the bridge).
 - When an IRC connection receives an error that means they failed to join the
   channel (e.g. `err_bannedfromchan`), the bridge will now kick the corresponding
   Matrix user from the room.

Bug fixes:
 - Fixed a bug whereby a metric was not sent to update the connected client count
   when reconnecting.
 - Fixed a bug whereby a nick set via `!nick` would not be persisted through
   reconnections.
 - Fixed a bug which caused the static config mappings to be preserved even when
   they were changed in `config.yaml`.

Changes in 0.3.1
================
New Features:
 - A "debug API" has been added and can be enabled via `ircService.debugApi.enabled: true`.
   See `config.sample.yaml` for the exposed REST API.
 - A new command `!whois Nick` has been added.
 - IRC channels with `+k` (a password is required) can now be accessed via the bridge using
   the `!join` command, which now has an optional `key` parameter.

Improvements:
 - Nickname validation logic now more accurately tracks RFC 2812 - in particular the allowed
   *first* character of a nick. The max nickname length (9) in RFC 2812 is ignored, as most
   servers have a higher limit (30) and connecting with a shortened form and then expanding
   it based on the `RPL_ISUPPORT NICKLEN` is needlessly tedious given most IRC servers
   automatically truncate long nicknames.
 - If a Matrix user leaves a PM room with an IRC user and the IRC user sends a message to
   them, the bridge will now automatically re-invite the Matrix user back into the room
   they left.
 - Issuing a `!join` command will now make the connected IRC client send a `JOIN` under
   the following circumstances:
     * The `!join` has a `key` - This is necessary because the bridge does not store channel keys.
     * The bridge is mirroring Matrix-to-IRC joins.

Bug fixes:
 - Fixed various issues with responses to the `!nick` command. It will now time out after
   10 seconds, rather than listen indefinitely for the next `NICK` reply. It will also
   listen for a wide variety of `NICK` error replies, including some server-specific error
   codes, in order to fail faster. In addition, the `|` character is now correctly allowed
   as part of a nickname for `!nick` commands.
 - Fixed a bug whereby starting the bridge pointed to an inactive Homeserver would cause
   the bridge to fail to start up and not terminate the process. The bridge will now retry
   `/initialSync` indefinitely so it can start up as soon as the Homeserver becomes active
   again.
 - Fixed a bug which caused the bridge to terminate due to `ECONNRESET`.
 - Fixed a bug which caused the bridge to attempt to set the `TOPIC` of an IRC channel
   based on an `m.room.topic` which did not have a `state_key` of `""`.
 - Fixed a bug which caused initial IRC-to-Matrix membership list syncing to not occur,
   even if it was enabled in `config.yaml`.

Changes in 0.3.0
================
This update implements full `matrix-appservice-bridge` support in the IRC bridge and adds a number of smaller features.

**BREAKING CHANGES:**
 - The structure of the NEDB databases has changed. You must run the [the upgrade script](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-appservice-irc/blob/develop/scripts/upgrade-db-0.1-to-0.2.js) in order to continue running the bridge. This must then be followed by [another upgrade script](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-appservice-irc/blob/develop/scripts/upgrade-db-0.2-to-0.3.js).
 - The CLI args have changed in this version to bring them in-line with [the bridge library](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-appservice-bridge):
    * To generate a registration file:

        ```
        node app.js -r [-f /path/to/save/registration.yaml] -u 'http://localhost:6789/appservice' -c CONFIG_FILE [-l my-app-service]
        ```
    * To run the bridge:

      ```
      node -c CONFIG_FILE [-f /path/to/load/registration.yaml] [-p NUMBER]
      ```

New Features:
 - Nicks set via `!nick` will now be preserved across bridge restarts.
 - EXPERIMENTAL: IRC clients created by the bridge can be assigned their own IPv6 address.
 - The bridge will now send connection status information to real Matrix users via the admin room (the same room `!nick` commands are issued).
 - Added `!help`.
 - The bridge will now fallback to `body` if the HTML content contains *any* unrecognised tags. This makes passing Markdown from Matrix to IRC much nicer.
 - The bridge will now send more metrics to the statsd server, including the join/part rate to and from IRC.
 - The config option `matrixClients.displayName` is now implemented.

Bug fixes:
 - Escape HTML entities when sending from IRC to Matrix. This prevents munging occurring between IRC formatting and textual < element > references, whereby if you sent a tag and some colour codes from IRC it would not escape the tag and therefore send invalid HTML to Matrix.
 - User IDs starting with `-` are temporarily filtered out from being bridged.
 - Deterministically generate the configuration file.
 - Recognise more IRC error codes as non-fatal to avoid IRC clients reconnecting unecessarily.
 - Add a 10 second timeout to join events injected via the `MemberListSyncer` to avoid HOL blocking.
 - 'Frontier' Matrix users will be forcibly joined to IRC channels even if membership list syncing I->M is disabled. This ensures that there is always a Matrix user in the channel being bridged to avoid losing traffic.
 - Cache the `/initialSync` request to avoid hitting this endpoint more than once, as it may be very slow.
 - Indexes have been added to the NeDB .db files to improve lookup times.
 - Do not recheck if the bridge bot should part the channel if a virtual user leaves the channel: we know it shouldn't.
 - Refine what counts as a "request" for metrics, reducing the amount of double-counting as requests echo back from the remote side.
 - Fixed a bug which caused users to be provisioned off their `user_id` even if they had a display name set.

Changes in 0.1.1
================
**Requires Node v4+**

Features:
 - `app.js` is now added to `.bin` so can be invoked directly.
 - Added config option `ircClients.idleTimeout` to allow virtual IRC clients to
   timeout after a specified amount of time.
 - **Deprecate** `dynamicChannels.visibility` in favour of
   `dynamicChannels.createAlias`, `dynamicChannels.published` and
   `dynamicChannels.joinRule` which gives more control over how the AS creates
   dynamic rooms.
 - Added `matrixClients.mirrorJoinPart` to make virtual IRC users join and part
   as their real Matrix counterparts join and leave rooms (the other way around
   to the existing `ircClients.mirrorJoinPart`).
 - Added a `membershipLists` section to control syncing of membership lists.

Improvements:
 - Replaced `check.sh` with `npm run lint` and `npm run check`.
 - Listen for `+k` and `+i` modes and change the `join_rules` of the Matrix
   room to `invite` when they are set. Revert back to the YAML configured
   `join_rules` when these modes are removed.

Bug fixes:
 - Make channels case-insensitive when joining via room aliases and when mapping
   to rooms.
 - Strip unknown HTML tags from Matrix messages before sending to IRC.
 - Don't try to leave Matrix rooms if the IRC user who left is a virtual user.
 - And more..
